0:00
In this chapter, we will look at what machine learning is. We will look at machine learning from the point of view of playing with it. That's one of the best ways to learn what something is. And then we'll look at how to create effective machine learning models. And finally, we'll create the machine learning datasets that we'll use in the rest of this module. Machine learning is a way to derive insights from data. So you have a lot of data and you have very standard algorithms that you can use to obtain some kind of insight from the data. The kinds of insights that you would get from the data tend to be predictive in nature. That's the way I distinguish between things like business intelligence, which is all about historical data, trying to figure out what happened, and machine learning, which is about training the machine learning model on older data – that is true – but to be able to apply that model to unknown data, to be able to predict with it. So when you think about machine learning, you basically think in terms of what you want to accomplish with it. So let's say that what we want to accomplish is that we have a bunch of images and we would like to know what's in those images. So what we want is that the output here, given this image, ought to be a cat or the output here needs to be dog or the output here on the third image needs to be a car or the output on the fourth image needs to be an apple. In order to do that, we need examples. An example in machine learning terms is a combination of the input, the input for which we want an output, and a label, which is a true output, the thing that we know, this is what it needs to be. So for example, we will have for this image the label cat and the second image the label dog and the third image the label car. And the pair of label and input together form an example. So when we are training a machine learning model, we're training it with examples which are combinations of labels and inputs. And once you have those examples, the machine learning model is a mathematical function that is trained, and the way you train the model is that any of the mathematical models have free parameters, tunable parameters called weights, and you adjust those weights in such a way that the output of the ML model of this function given the first image is hopefully, cat and the second image is hopefully dog. Now if we had trained this model such that given this image the label were to be grass, that is what the ML model would learn. So what the machine learning model does that it learns the labels for a particular image. It basically figures out a function such that that function given this input or given any of these inputs is going to be the corresponding label. And the idea is that given such a function, we can now give it a new image, an image for which we don't know the label, and the resulting function would give you a prediction, and that prediction is going to be the right output for this image. So the whole idea of machine learning is that you have a large data set of labeled data. So you have a data set of data, so this is the inputs and the corresponding labels. And you use this training data set to adjust the mathematical model in such a way that given an input, the output for that input is what the original label was. And then you don't need the training data anymore. All you need is a model, and you can take that model and apply it to an arbitrary image and hopefully what you get back is what you have trained that model to do on an image like that image. So you predict with a model that has been trained. So I've used these words in pretty intuitive terms. So go ahead and make sure that you understand exactly what these terms mean. What's a label? What's an input? What's an example? What's a model? What's training? What's prediction? If necessary, pause the video a little bit, try to answer these questions, and I'll move on. So, what's a label? A label is the correct output for some input. This is what you train the model with. The label is a correct output for an input. And what's an input? The input is the thing that you will know and that you can provide at the time of even prediction. These are the things, for example, if they're images; the image itself is an input. What's an example? An example is a combination of label and input. An input and its corresponding label together form an example. So what's a model? A model is this mathematical function that takes an input and creates an output that approximates the label for that input. What's training? Training is this process of adjusting the weights of a model in such a way that it can make predictions, given an input. And a prediction, is this process of taking an input in and applying the mathematical model to it, so as to get an output that hopefully is the correct output for that input. So when we look at machine learning use cases, the one that I've just talked about is called supervised learning. It's learning by example. There's another type of machine learning use case, where you don't have labels. So that's called clustering. For example, you may have the data, as the data on the left, you may have some data on people. Every dot here is a person at a company. We know the number of years they have spent at the company and we know their income, and we can look at this data and we feel that this data falls into two big categories: one category of people whose income rises much faster than this other category of people. And we may say anybody in this grouping is on the fast track at this company. But that's not a label, because we don't know the truth. This is just looking at the data and trying to divide it into two classes. This is the last time that we are going to look at unsupervised learning. The rest of this course, we are going to focus on supervised learning. Learning where we have a label, where we know the true outcome for some input. So let's say we have this data of people who visit a restaurant, and they get a total bill and we know what the tip is that they pay. And our data set includes people who are male and people who are female, and those are the two dots in our dataset. And now our idea is that given the gender of the person making the payment and the total bill, we need to predict the tip amount. If that is our problem, because we want to predict the tip amount, the amount is a continuous number, and because we want to predict a continuous number, this is called a regression problem. On the other hand, the exact same data set could be used to predict something else. Maybe given the total bill and the tip, what we want to do is to predict the gender of the person making the payment, and then it becomes a classification problem because in this dataset, there happened to be just two categories of people. And we want to basically take everybody who comes to a restaurant, and based on the bill and based on the tip, we want to try to predict whether the person making the payment was male or female. So here's an example of a regression model that predicts a continuous number.This is our data set on babies that were born, and we know the mother's age, we know whether she used a cigarette, whether she used alcohol, and the weight gain in pounds. And based on this data set, we want to predict how long the gestation period is going to be; how long is the pregnancy going to last for this mother. And because what we're trying to predict is the gestation weeks, and that's a continuous number, this model that takes the mother's age, the weight gain in pounds, cigarette use and alcohol use, the model that takes these four inputs and uses it to predict the gestation weeks is a regression model. Now where does this data come from? This is what we would call structured data, and a very common source of structured data for machine learning is your data warehouse. In this case, BigQuery. We can go ahead and do a select statement in BigQuery to create this data set such that we can use it to train a model that predicts the gestation week, s given all of these attributes of the mother. So this is a very common use case and this is a use case that we are going to focus on in this module. So we are going to be looking at structured data prediction for machine learning. So you've trained a model, how does prediction work in a structured data problem? Well, remember that you trained the model on four inputs: mother's age, cigarette use, alcohol use and weight gain in pounds. If you want to do prediction, you need to have the person who requires a prediction, usually it's another computerized application, that application needs to give you those four input parameters and the machine learning service will give you back the predicted gestation weeks. In other words, the inputs are going to be mother's age, cigarette use, alcohol use and weight gain in pounds, and I'm showing it to you here as JSON input. And these then get presented to the machine learning model which applies the mathematical function and out comes the gestation period, because that's what the model was trained to predict. Now, the simplest model that we can think about that's capable of doing something like this may have exactly just one layer, and that layer is a layer of weights. So we could write the mathematical function as gestation weeks is weight zero times mother's age plus weight one times cigarette use plus weight two times alcohol use plus weight three times the weight gain in pounds plus b, a constant that we will call the bias. And this may be the entire mathematical model and you can see that we could probably adjust these weights in such a way that for any of these rows in the data, the gestation weeks that we get by applying this formula to the final four columns is as close as possible to the gestation week for that row. The other type of model besides the regression model is a classification model. So here, let's say we have a set of emails, and given an email, we want to say, is this email spam or not spam? So again, the input is text, the text of the email, and the label, because we want to predict if its spam or not, the label is whether a specific email is spam or not spam. So you have some labelled data where you have a bunch of emails and labels for each of those emails that tell you whether that email is spam or not spam. And then given this input and this label, that's our training data set, we then take our mathematical model and change the weights of this mathematical model in such a way that given any of these inputs, the output is as close as possible to the label that we have. And what we will do here is that we might say that not spam is the number zero and spam is the number one, and we want our output to be as close as possible to zero for the second one or one for the first one. In the case of the gestation weeks problem, it's kind of clear that we're basically taking numbers, mother's age is a number, weight gain in pounds is a number, and cigarette use, even though it's true or false, we can think of it as numbers zero and one, and we are simply going ahead and making a computation, a weighted sum, and that's our mathematical model. So that's great. But, how does it work for unstructured data? How can we do a weighted sum of an image? Even an image, you can think of as a two-dimensional array of pixels and each pixel has red, green, blue and alpha, so four numbers. So what an image ultimately is is that it's a three-dimensional array of numbers. A 1D array is a vector. A two D array is a matrix. An N-dimensional array is a tensor, and that's where the name comes from. So if you have an image, an image is a tensor. What about if you have text? How does the word still become a number? Now that's a little bit harder. So what you would do is that you would take any word and map it to be a vector. So the word "the" could be the numbers [0 4 5 0 3 4], which is great. Now we can just go ahead and assign arbitrary numbers to every word in the dictionary. But that's not ideal. It's not ideal because you would like to say that the word, the vector representation of plenty and the vector representation of many and the vector representation of much should all be relatively close to each other and should be very different from the vector representation of seeing because the word "seeing" and "plenty" are not as closely related as the word "much" and "plenty". So this itself turns out to be a machine learning problem of assigning an appropriate vector to appropriate words in a language, but fortunately that's been done before. So if you have a machine learning problem where your input is going to be freeform text, what you would do is you would go ahead and find one of these what are called word2vec, one of these techniques to convert words to vectors. And typically there is a different word2vec for different languages, so you would go ahead and pick one of those word2vec things and use it to convert your text into vectors. And then from then on, all you have are numbers and you go ahead and do your machine learning on those numbers. So even though we are focusing primarily on structured data in this course, what you would do, what you would have to do for images and work you would have to do for text, the concepts still apply. As it turns out, though, the kind of layers and the kinds of things that you would do would be somewhat different, but we're not going to talk about those, we're going to stick very much to the basic concepts of machine learning and applying it to structured data machine learning, which is the most common kind of data problem that you would face in most businesses. So if you are going to be learning ML, let's learn it on structured data because it tends to be the most useful. Now, if you have a classification model, the labels would be spam or not spam, but the output of the model will be a number between zero and one. It will not be just integers, it will be a floating-point number thats between zero and one. So how do we interpret that number? What we do is that we interpret that number, because we decided that spam was going to be one and not spam was going to be zero, we will interpret that number as a probability such that if this probability is one, it is 100% likely to be spam; if the probability is zero, it's 100% likely to be not spam; and if it's a number between zero and one, if the number is 0.8, we say that it's 80% likely that this email is spam. So we interpret this number that between zero and one as a probability of it being label equals one. Given this framing, so you have a labeled data set, a data set where you have a bunch of inputs and the true, known output for each of those inputs, given that such training data set, we can now create a machine learning model, a mathematical function that will be able to create an approximation of that label for every one of those inputs. And then you can take that model and use it on inputs for which you are interested in knowing what the output ought to be, and that's the framing. And given that kind of a framing, ML turns out to be extremely useful in a lot of different industries. So if you want to apply ML, what you're essentially asking is, can I find a training data set that has labels? Can I find a labeled data set? If you can find a labeled data set, you are in business. So if that's essentially what you need, now machine learning essentially comes out to be: Find all of the places where you can have a labeled data set. How can you create a label data set? So whether it is about risk analytics or about aircraft scheduling or about power usage or about diagnostics from real-time patient data, you are essentially asking yourself, can I find a labeled data set? So let's say, for example, you want to do predictive maintenance on some parts in manufacturing. Essentially in order to be able to do that, what you need to be able to do, is you need to be able to find a labeled data set. You need to be able to find parts that fail and parts that don't fail. And essentially, all of the attributes of those parts are going to be your inputs and you're basically going to try to find a mathematical model that, given all of the attributes of those parts, is going to give you the likelihood of the part failing over the next month, for example. So you basically take that labeled data set, and you go ahead and you train your model. So, take this as an example and go and find five use cases from this previous slide, and use it to fill your table. So take the use case, take the label, take the inputs, go ahead and do a classification or regression. Is it a classification problem or is it a regression problem? 
