0:00
In this module we'll look at What Makes an Effective Machine Learning Model.
0:07
In the popular imagination what machine learning is is a way by which you have lots of data, doesn't matter what the data is, just have lots of it. You take that data and you somehow throw that into a fancy model with complex math that's multi-dimensional space, and out pops something magical, magical results.
0:33
In reality though, machine learning is going to be about collecting data. It's not going to be about data that you just happen to have lying around. That somehow magically works the way you want it to work, instead you have to purposefully collect the data. And the data that you collect, you typically have to organize it. And the organization of the data is going to reflect your insight into the problem, insight into what it is that you're trying to predict. And having organised the data, then you will create a model, and model also will be quite purposeful in terms of what is it you want to predict. And the model is going to be capturing your insights into the problem, but once you have that model, then you can apply all of the fancy machinery to flesh out this model from data. So you have data that you've collected and you have a model that expresses the thing that you want to be able to predict, your problem domain, and then you can use machine learning to fit the parameters of this model. And, at the end, what you get is going to be magical. But in order to get that, you're going to be spending a lot of time and a lot of effort. 
