0:00
You also have to look at the data that you have and you have to see about what things about the data don't quite fit. Now, this is something that if you worked with data for a long time you know, right? You know that you have to go find outliers in your data. But the traditional statistical approach to outliers is often to simply throw them away. So you have your data set and you take your outliers and you say well these are things that are way beyond the normal distribution of my data and therefore I'm going to discard them and not use them in my analysis.
0:39
With machine learning though, before you throw out outliers you should do one
0:46
thing, you should try to see if you can collect enough of these outliers. What do you mean by that? Let's say, for example, you have some temperature trends that you are following in your data, and your temperature goes up and down, but every once in a while, right? You basically see, there is this huge, deep drop and it happens in one in, maybe, 15,000 samples. This is negative spike and it can be very tempting to simply throw out those outliers and move on. It's 1 in 15,000, we don't need it. But a better approach would be to say, why does this happen? And it may turn out that this happens because of daylight savings time changes. So every time there is a change in the time zone, or in the time offset to UTC, that's when this thing happens, and then that explains something to you about your data. And you have to go and make sure that you have enough of those examples in your training dataset. This is important, because at prediction time, you will still want to be able to deal with these things. One of the key things to remember is that a machine learning algorithm is built on historical data. But it is built in order to carry out predictions in real time. And the less hand holding you need to do, the fewer point you have to throw away, the more robust your prediction algorithm is going to be. So you want to try to make sure that if there are issues with your data, you find out why those issues exist. And sometimes your solution is not to throw away these kinds of outliers. Your solution is to back and collect more data such that this outlier is no longer an outlier, it is something that can be reasoned about and it can be something that the ML model can learn to anticipate and handle gracefully. 
