0:00
In the previous module, we looked at how to write a TensorFlow model using the high level estimator API. In this module, we will take one such model and we look at how to scale it out, how to run it in a distributed way, so that you're not running it on one machine, you're running it on a whole host of machines.
0:24
Now here's the thing. All the hard work is done. Once you've wrote a TensorFlow model using the estimator API, taking that model and distributing it is simply a bunch of gcloud commands. So this module is, essentially, just scripting. So we're going to swim through this rather quickly.
0:48
So, what are we going to do in this module? We're going to, essentially, look at how to build an effective machine learning model, part one. And part one of that is how to take a TensorFlow model that you have, and how to scale it out, how to run it on many machines. That's, essentially, the way you're dealing with big data. Instead of running it all on one machine and it takes days, you look at how to scale it out on many machines. And that's what we're going to do. But if you're going to do scaling, why do we need Cloud ML Engine?


0:01
In the previous module, we looked at how to build a machine learning model using TensorFlow. But the model that we built was a relatively small model because the data set that it could process was very small. All of that data was loaded into memory, and it processed it. So what's left now? We need to look at how to build effective machine learning models. And one of the key ways that you make a machine learning model effective is to have it work on larger data sets. So we look in this module about the first step, which is how to build an effective machine learning model on big data. And you do that by scaling it out. So we look at Cloud Machine Learning, Cloud ML, which lets you take a TensorFlow model and scale it so that it can run on very large data sets. After this module, the next model that we look at will be on feature engineering, which is the second way to build an effective machine learning model. And the third way to build an effective machine learning model is to change the model architecture. We'll look at that next. But in this module, we'll look at how to scale up a machine learning model so that it can work on large data sets using Cloud ML. 
